# Supplementary_Tables_Chapter_3
Supplementary Tables S1-S3 for the PhD-Thesis: Genetics of Bottlenecked Species Through Time: Insights from Ancient Genomes of the Alpine ibex by Mathieu Robin

## Table S1: Sample information and C14 dating
General sample information of the Tempiette samples under study, including the laboratory code from the radiocarbon dating and the respective age. Sample Name describes the Sample ID. “Age of Samples” describes the age as inferred by AMS-14C dating, based on atmospheric data inferred by Reimer et al. (2020) and calibrated with OxCal v4.4.4 (Ramsey 2009). “Laboratory Code '' gives the individual identification code assigned by the Laboratory of Ion Beam Physics at ETH Zürich according to international conventions. All the following information has been inferred by the PoolTool-Wrapper facilitating samtools flagstat, samtools coverage, and custom scripts. The sequencing run was based on a NextSeq-500 in mid-output mode with 150 cycles (2*75+8+8). “Raw Reads [N]” lists the raw read assigned to each sample in the screening run. “Duplicates [N]” lists the PCR duplicates. “Mapped Reads [N ≥ MQ 30]” lists the number of reads surviving a  mapping quality 30 and --min-BQ 30 aligned to the ARS1 reference genome (Bickhart et al. 2017). “Endogene DNA [% ≥ MQ30]” describes the percentage of endogenous reads assigned to the sample with a total mapping quality of 30. 

## Table S2: Mapping statistics
Output of the PoolTool wrapper when calculating the pool composition for the final sequencing and mapping statistics. The inferred statistics are as above based on the Illumina NextSeq-500 screening run (2*75+8+8). “Sample” describes the sample name of the species, “EndogDNA_MQ30[%]” describes the percentage of endogenous reads filtered with a mapping quality filter of 30, Mean_Read_Depth_MQ30 describes the mean read depth per sample with an MQ of 30, Read_for_1Cov describes the number of raw reads needed to gain one coverage, Total_Lines describes the number of lines available. Coverage_aim describes the read depth aimed for each sample, Coverage_per_Line describes the coverage which is gained per line, Rawreads_for_CoverageAim describes the calculated number of reads needed to get the coverage aim, Sequencer_Total_Reads is the number of reads an Illumina NovaSeq sequencer output. Sequencing_Overhead gives an indication of the total line usage.  value <1 indicates that the expected coverage cannot be reached with the available clusters and additional sequencing effort is needed whereas a value >1 indicates that there is an excess of coverage. Additional_Lines_needed indicates how much more lines  should be added, if the value is negative, there is no need for additional lines. Final_coverage_sample describes the final coverage of the sample after sequencing the corrected pool. This number seems to be slightly higher than the actual coverage after sequencing actually is. Library_to_pool describes how much μl should be added to the pool from each sample to gain equalised coverage in the final pool.

## Table S3: Summary statistics screening run and whole genome sequencing
Summary statistics of mapping statistics inferred from the screening run, as well as the sequencing run. “Meandepth” summarises the mean sequencing read depth over all samples, AgeBP C14-AMS calibrated radiocarbon dates, Derivation_Fold describes the deviation from the mean read depth, and Deviation_from1 normalises this statistics, so that 0 instead of 1 would indicate a perfect equilibration of the sequencing pool. The summary statistics were calculated using R version 4.0.5 and tidyverse 1.3.0. 
